---
layout: post
title: Assignment 2
excerpt: "Corpus Assignment."
modified: 1/31/2023, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog
---


## Introduction 

### About Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was a Scottish author who was born in Edinburgh in 1859. In the late 1800s, Doyle began to write tales with Sherlock Holmes. In addition to several other pieces of fiction and non-fiction, Doyle authored four novels and 56 short stories with Holmes as the main character. Doyle had a complicated relationship with his most well-known creation despite his success as a writer. He occasionally got sick of writing about Holmes and attempted to get rid of the character, but the public was not satisfied with that. Sherlock Holmes continues to carry on Doyle's legacy as one of the best crime authors of all time.

### About The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes is one of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's most well-known works, which is a compilation of 12 short stories that stars the renowned investigator Sherlock Holmes and his dear companion Dr. John Watson. Every story in the book features another mystery for Sherlock Holmes to solve. Among the most well-known tales in the book are "A Scandal in Bohemia," in which Sherlock Holmes battles with Irene Adler, and "The Adventure of the Speckled Band," in which Holmes investigates a family curse involving a harmful snake. Throughout the stories, Holmes relies on his extraordinary observational and deductive reasoning powers to solve cases that at first seem impossible to solve. He is frequently called by individuals who are desperate and have nowhere else to turn. Holmes explores Victorian London with Watson by his side, discovering clues and outwitting criminals at every turn.


## Analysis
For this analysis, I decided to use Voyant tools. Doing this computer-assisted analysis is more efficient than a linear read since that would take a lot of time to figure out the frequent words, etc. A computer-assisted analysis also allows us to see larger sets of data. For this particular corpus, a linear read would have been very difficult to do within this time frame especially since there are 12 short stories. I found that the format of the corpus is sufficient enough to analyze it. 

According to the word cloud tool Cirrus, "said" is the most frequent word in the Adventures of Sherlock Holmes. 

<iframe style='width: 700px; height: 500px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Cirrus/?view=Cirrus&corpus=86b0cafca92dbaf5e71d4cb70e4f37ea'></iframe>

This shows that there are many sayings throughout the text. The tool WordTree also shows the word "said" followed by a quote or comma. 

<iframe style='width: 397px; height: 323px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/WordTree/?query=said&corpus=86b0cafca92dbaf5e71d4cb70e4f37ea'></iframe>

Interestingly, the DreamScape tool examines the places mentioned in the text. Through that, the tool makes an animated map of the cities/countries that the characters have been to.

<iframe style='width: 700px; height: 550px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/DreamScape/?view=DreamScape&corpus=86b0cafca92dbaf5e71d4cb70e4f37ea'></iframe>

This tool also highlights every place and makes an arrow to the ones that are correlated with it. One other thing I noticed is that it goes through the entire text and animates the map according to chronological order. As we can see, the map highlights London the most of out of all, which makes perfect sense since Sherlock Holmes is from London. 
