---
layout: post
title: DLN
excerpt: "Digital Literacy Narrative Assignment"
modified: 1/31/2023, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog
---

## 3rd edit in progress

As an 18 year old university student studying digital humanities, I am constantly acquiring new skills that will help me use technology more effectively in both my daily and academic life. I was exposed to a variety of social media platforms growing up in the digital age, and I have always been familiar with online tools for content creation. However, until I began taking this introductory course in digital humanities, I had never fully appreciated the possibilities of technology for research data management, data manipulation, and analysis.

In my daily life, I primarily use social media sites such as Instagram and Facebook to connect with friends and family and to follow my favorite influencers and brands. I always appreciated these networks' accessibility and convenience for keeping in touch with others. However, I have become more conscious of the potential risks and limitations of relying too heavily on social media, such as its effects on mental health and privacy concerns.

For content creation, I use a variety of tools such as Canva and Adobe Spark to create graphics and videos for personal projects. Additionally, I also use Adobe Illustrator to create posters. I have also recently discovered the potential of using video editing software like iMovie and Splice to enhance my content and make it more visually appealing. 

In terms of research data management, I have mostly used Google Drive to store and organize my academic papers and projects. For simple data analysis tasks like making charts and graphs, I have used Microsoft Excel and Google Sheets. However, I have acknowledged that these tools may not be sufficient for more advanced data manipulation and analysis.

The digital humanities course has opened my eyes to the vast array of technology and tools available for research data management and analysis. I have learned about tools such as Posit Cloud for data visualization and network analysis, as well as programming languages like Python and R for data manipulation and analysis. I am fascinated by the potential of these tools to revolutionize the way we approach and analyze data, and I am eager to learn more about how to apply them in my academic and professional life. Furthermore, I also used Orange for data mining and visualization. Other than that, we worked with image collections such as Selfie City and photogrammar.

Over the course of the semester, we learned various new things such as analyzing digial maps like the Smell Map Amsterdam as well as Las Calles de las mujeres. In addition, we also worked with the Digital Library of the Middle East and gathered some metadata to analyze and compare objects. We also discussed the notion of 3-dimensional objects and one of the labs we had in class also involved 3d printing in which we viewed a 3d printed wordcloud. Other than that, we also got to visit the special archives in the library. During our visit, we saw a device that can digitize handwritten text. I thought that the machine is very helpful, especially if we cannot understand handwritten texts from the past. 

Despite my prior experience with technology and my newfound knowledge from the digital humanities course, I still feel that my abilities in this area are limited. I am aware that there is so much more to learn, and I am excited to continue to expand my skills and knowledge in the field.

In conclusion, my digital literacy journey as a university student taking an introductory course in digital humanities has been eye-opening and enriching. I have come to appreciate the potential of technology for research data management, data manipulation, and analysis, and I am eager to continue learning about how to effectively utilize these tools in my academic and professional life. While I have some basic skills in content creation and social interaction, I am aware that there is still much more to learn and I am eager to continue to expand my knowledge and abilities in this area.